S4834 1R SS SENATE SUBSTITUTE FOR SENATE, No. 4834 STATE OF NEW JERSEY 221st LEGISLATURE ADOPTED DECEMBER 22, 2025 Sponsored by: Senator NICHOLAS P. SCUTARI District 22 (Somerset and Union) Senator PAUL D. MORIARTY District 4 (Atlantic, Camden and Gloucester) Assemblyman JAMES J. KENNEDY District 22 (Somerset and Union) Assemblywoman LINDA S. CARTER District 22 (Somerset and Union) Assemblyman STERLEY S. STANLEY District 18 (Middlesex) SYNOPSIS Regulates certain electric bicycles. CURRENT VERSION OF TEXT As amended by the General Assembly on January 12, 2026. An Act concerning the requirements for operating certain electric bicycles, amending various parts of the statutory law, and supplementing Title 39 of the Revised Statutes. Be It Enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the State of New Jersey: 1. R.S.39:1-1 is amended to read as follows: 39:1-1. As used in this subtitle, unless other meaning is clearly apparent from the language or context, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intention of the Legislature: "Alley" means a public highway wherein the roadway does not exceed 12 feet in width. "Authorized emergency vehicles" means vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles and such ambulances and other vehicles as are approved by the chief administrator when operated in response to an emergency call. "Autocycle" means a three-wheeled motorcycle designed to be controlled with a steering wheel and pedals in which the operator and passenger may ride in a completely or partially enclosed seating area that is equipped with a roll cage or roll hoops, safety seat belts for each occupant, and anti-lock brakes. "Automobile" includes all motor vehicles except motorcycles. "Berm" means that portion of the highway , exclusive of the roadway and shoulder, that borders the shoulder but is not to be used for vehicular travel. "Business district" means that portion of a highway and the territory contiguous thereto, where within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including , but not limited to , hotels, banks, office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the roadway. "Car pool" means two or more persons commuting on a daily basis to and from work by means of a vehicle with a seating capacity of nine passengers or less. "Chief Administrator" or "Administrator" means the Chief Administrator of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission. "Commercial motor vehicle" includes every type of motor-driven vehicle used for commercial purposes on the highways, such as the transportation of goods, wares , and merchandise, excepting such vehicles as are run only upon rails or tracks and vehicles of the passenger car type used for touring purposes or the carrying of farm products and milk, as the case may be. "Commission" means the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission established by section 4 of P.L.2003, c.13 (C.39:2A-4). "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Transportation of this State. "Commuter van" means a motor vehicle having a seating capacity of not less than seven nor more than 15 adult passengers, in which seven or more persons commute on a daily basis to and from work and which vehicle may also be operated by the driver or other designated persons for their personal use. "Crosswalk" means that part of a highway at an intersection, either marked or unmarked , existing at each approach of every roadway intersection, included within the connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the shoulder, or, if none, from the edges of the roadway , and any portion of a highway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other marking on the surface. "Curb extension" or "bulbout" means a horizontal extension of the sidewalk into the street which results in a narrower roadway section. "Dealer" includes every person actively engaged in the business of buying, selling , or exchanging motor vehicles or motorcycles and who has an established place of business. "Deputy Chief Administrator" means the deputy chief administrator of the commission. "Driver" means the rider or driver of a horse, bicycle , or motorcycle or the driver or operator of a motor vehicle, unless otherwise specified. "Electric motorized bicycle" means any two-wheeled vehicle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor capable of greater than 750 watts that is capable of reaching a speed greater than 28 miles per hour. "Electric vehicle charging space" means a publicly accessible charging space or set of charging spaces, with visible signage indicating that the charging space or spaces are available for use by the public for charging plug-in electric vehicles. "Explosives" means any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb. "Farm tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry. "Flammable liquid" means any liquid having a flash point below 200 degrees Fahrenheit and a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds. "Gross weight" means the combined weight of a vehicle and a load thereon. "High occupancy vehicle" or "HOV" means a vehicle which is used to transport two or more persons , including public transportation, car pool, van pool, and other vehicles , as determined by regulation of the Department of Transportation. "Highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. "Horse" includes mules and all other domestic animals used as draught animals or beasts of burden. "Inside lane" means the lane nearest the center line of the roadway. "Intersection" means the area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb lines or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways which join one another at an angle, whether or not one such highway crosses another. "Laned roadway" means a roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic. "Leased limousine" means any limousine subject to regulation in the State which: is offered for rental or lease, without a driver, to be operated by a limousine service as the lessee, for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire; and is leased or rented for a period of one year or more following registration. "Leased motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle subject to registration in this State which: is offered for rental or lease, without a driver, to be operated by the lessee, the lessee's agent or servant, for purposes other than the transportation of passengers for hire; and is leased or rented for a period of one year or more following registration. "Limited-access highway" means every highway, street, or roadway in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from , except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway, street, or roadway; and includes any highway designated as a "freeway" or "parkway" by authority of law. "Local authorities" means every county, municipal , and other local board or body having authority to adopt local police regulations under the Constitution and laws of this State, including every county governing body with relation to county roads. "Low-speed electric bicycle" means a two-wheeled vehicle with fully operable pedals and an electric motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour . "Low-speed electric scooter" means a scooter with a floorboard that can be stood upon by the operator, with handlebars, and an electric motor that is capable of propelling the device , with or without human propulsion , at a maximum speed of less than 19 miles per hour. "Low-speed vehicle" means a four-wheeled low-speed vehicle, as defined in 49 C.F.R. s.571.3(b), whose attainable speed is more than 20 miles per hour but not more than 25 miles per hour on a paved level surface and which is not powered by gasoline or diesel fuel and complies with federal safety standards as set forth in 49 C.F.R. s.571.500. "Magistrate" means any municipal court and the Superior Court, and any officer having the powers of a committing magistrate and the chief administrator. "Manufacturer" means a person engaged in the business of manufacturing or assembling motor vehicles, who will, under normal business conditions during the year, manufacture or assemble at least 10 new motor vehicles. "Metal tire" means every tire , the surface of which in contact with the highway is wholly or partly made of metal or other hard nonresilient material. "Mid-block crosswalk" means a crosswalk located away from an intersection, distinctly indicated by lines or markings on the surface. "Motorized bicycle" means a pedal bicycle that is equipped with: (1) a helper motor characterized in that either the maximum piston displacement is less than 50 cubic centimeters or the helper motor is rated at no more than 1.5 brake horsepower ; (2) an electric motor that can provide assistance when the rider is pedaling or that, through the use of a throttle, can be used to exclusively propel the bicycle to a speed of not more than 15 miles per hour; (3) a helper motor that is powered by an electric drive motor that provides assistance when the rider is pedaling and has a maximum speed between 21 miles per hour and 28 miles per hour on a flat surface ; or (4) an electric motor that is capable of propelling the bicycle in excess of 15 miles per hour through the use of a throttle with a maximum motor-powered speed of no more than 28 miles per hour on a flat surface. This term shall not include a low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed electric scooter , as those terms are defined in this section. "Motorcycle" includes motorcycles, autocycles, motor bikes, electric motorized bicycles, all motor-operated vehicles of the bicycle or tricycle type, and bicycles with a motor attached, except motorized bicycles, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed electric scooters , as defined in this section, whether the motive power be a part thereof or attached thereto and having a saddle or seat with driver sitting astride or upon it or a platform on which the driver stands. "Motor-drawn vehicle" includes trailers, semitrailers, or any other type of vehicle drawn by a motor-driven vehicle. "Motor vehicle" includes all vehicles propelled otherwise than by muscular power, excepting such vehicles as run only upon rails or tracks, low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed electric scooters, and motorized bicycles. "Motorized scooter" means a miniature motor vehicle and includes, but is not limited to, pocket bikes, super pocket bikes, scooters, mini-scooters, sport scooters, mini choppers, mini motorcycles, motorized skateboards , and other vehicles with motors not manufactured in compliance with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards and which have no permanent Federal Safety Certification stickers affixed to the vehicle by the original manufacturer. This term shall not include: electric personal assistive mobility devices, motorized bicycles, low-speed vehicles, low-speed electric bicycles, or low-speed electric scooters or motorized wheelchairs, mobility scooters, or similar mobility assisting devices used by persons with physical disabilities or persons whose ambulatory mobility has been impaired by age or illness. "Motorized skateboard" means a skateboard that is propelled otherwise than by muscular power. "Motorized wheelchair" means any motor-driven wheelchair utilized to increase the independent mobility in the activities of daily living of an individual who has limited or no ambulation abilities and includes mobility scooters manufactured specifically for such purposes and designed primarily for indoor use. "Noncommercial truck" means every motor vehicle designed primarily for transportation of property and which is not a "commercial vehicle." "Official traffic control devices" means all signs, signals, markings, and devices not inconsistent with this subtitle placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic. "Omnibus" includes all motor vehicles used for the transportation of passengers for hire, except commuter vans and vehicles used in ridesharing arrangements and school buses if the same are not otherwise used in the transportation of passengers for hire. "Operator" means a person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle or street car. "Outside lane" means the lane nearest the curb or outer edge of the roadway. "Owner" means a person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or if a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee or if a mortgagor of a vehicle is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee, lessee, or mortgagor shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this subtitle. "Parking" means the standing or waiting on a street, road, or highway of a vehicle not actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers or merchandise, unless in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals. "Passenger automobile" means all automobiles used and designed for the transportation of passengers, other than omnibuses and school buses. "Pedestrian" means a person afoot. "Person" includes natural persons, firms, copartnerships, associations, and corporations. "Plug-in electric vehicle" means a vehicle that has a battery, or an equivalent energy storage device, that can be charged from an electricity supply external to the vehicle with an electric plug. This term includes a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle. "Plug-in hybrid electric vehicle" means a vehicle that can be charged from a source of electricity external to the vehicle through an electric plug, but is not exclusively powered by electricity. "Pneumatic tire" means every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the load. "Pole trailer" means every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads, such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections. "Private road or driveway" means every road or driveway not open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. "Railroad train" means a steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars. "REAL ID basic driver's license" means a basic driver's license issued by the commission that complies with the provisions of the "REAL ID Act of 2005," Pub.L.109-13, any acts amendatory or supplementary thereto, and any federal regulations adopted thereunder. "REAL ID identification card" means an identification card issued by the commission that complies with the provisions of the "REAL ID Act of 2005," Pub.L.109-13, any acts amendatory or supplementary thereto, and any federal regulations adopted thereunder. "REAL ID license" means any license to operate a motor vehicle issued by the commission that complies with the provisions of the "REAL ID Act of 2005," Pub.L.109-13, any acts amendatory or supplementary thereto, and any federal regulations adopted thereunder. "REAL ID motorcycle license" means a motorcycle license issued by the commission that complies with the provisions of the "REAL ID Act of 2005," Pub.L.109-13, any acts amendatory or supplementary thereto, and any federal regulations adopted thereunder. "REAL ID probationary license" means a probationary license issued by the commission that complies with the provisions of the "REAL ID Act of 2005," Pub.L.109-13, any acts amendatory or supplementary thereto, and any federal regulations adopted thereunder. "Recreation vehicle" means a self-propelled or towed vehicle equipped to serve as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel purposes and used solely as a family or personal conveyance. "Residence district" means that portion of a highway and the territory contiguous thereto, not comprising a business district, where within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business or residential purposes which occupy 300 feet or more of frontage on at least one side of the highway. "Ridesharing" means the transportation of persons in a motor vehicle, with a maximum carrying capacity of not more than 15 passengers, including the driver, where such transportation is incidental to the purpose of the driver. The term shall include such ridesharing arrangements known as car pools and van pools. "Right-of-way" means the privilege of the immediate use of the highway. "Road tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn. "Roadway" means that portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways, collectively. "Safety zone" means the area or space officially set aside within a highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians, which is so plainly marked or indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone. "School bus" means every motor vehicle operated by, or under contract with, a public or governmental agency, or religious or other charitable organization or corporation, or privately operated for the transportation of children to or from school for secular or religious education, which complies with the regulations of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission affecting school buses, including "School Vehicle Type I" and "School Vehicle Type II" as defined below: "School Vehicle Type I" means any vehicle designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, used to transport enrolled children, and adults only when serving as chaperones, to or from a school, school-connected activity, day camp, summer day camp, summer residence camp, nursery school, child care center, preschool center, or other similar places of education. Such vehicle shall comply with the regulations of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission and either the Department of Education or the Department of Human Services, whichever is the appropriate supervising agency. "School Vehicle Type II" means any vehicle designed to transport less than 16 passengers, including the driver, used to transport enrolled children, and adults only when serving as chaperones, to or from a school, school-connected activity, day camp, summer day camp, summer residence camp, nursery school, child care center, preschool center, or other similar places of education. Such vehicle shall comply with the regulations of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission and either the Department of Education or the Department of Human Services, whichever is the appropriate supervising agency. "School zone" means that portion of a highway which is either contiguous to territory occupied by a school building or is where school crossings are established in the vicinity of a school, upon which are maintained appropriate "school signs" in accordance with specifications adopted by the chief administrator and in accordance with law. "School crossing" means that portion of a highway where school children are required to cross the highway in the vicinity of a school. "Semitrailer" means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle. "Shipper" means any person who shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, any commodity, produce, or article for transportation as the contents or load of a commercial motor vehicle. In the case of a sealed ocean container, "shipper" shall not be construed to include any person whose activities with respect to the shipment are limited to the solicitation or negotiation of the sale, resale, or exchange of the commodity, produce, or article within that container. "Shoulder" means that portion of the highway, exclusive of and bordering the roadway, which is designed for emergency use but not ordinarily to be used for vehicular travel. "Sidewalk" means that portion of a highway intended for the use of pedestrians between the curb line or the lateral line of a shoulder or, if none, the lateral line of the roadway and the adjacent right-of-way line. "Sign." See "Official traffic control devices." "Slow-moving vehicle" means a vehicle run at a speed less than the maximum speed then and there permissible. "Solid tire" means every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not depend upon compressed air for the support of the load. "Standard" means, when used to describe any license to operate a motor vehicle or any identification card issued by the commission under the provisions of this Title, that the issuance of the license or identification card does not require proof of lawful presence in the United States. "Street" means the same as highway. "Street car" means a car , other than a railroad train , used for transporting persons or property and operated upon rails principally within a municipality. "Stop," when required, means complete cessation from movement. "Stopping or standing," when prohibited, means any cessation of movement of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal. "Suburban business or residential district" means that portion of highway and the territory contiguous thereto, where within any 1,320 feet along that highway there is land in use for business or residential purposes and that land occupies more than 660 feet of frontage on one side or collectively more than 660 feet of frontage on both sides of that roadway. "Through highway" means every highway or portion thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in this chapter. "Trackless trolley" means every motor vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but not operated upon rails. "Traffic" means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars, and other conveyances either singly, or together, while using any highway for purposes of travel. "Traffic control signal" means a device, whether manually, electrically, mechanically, or otherwise controlled, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed. "Trailer" means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle. "Truck" means every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the transportation of property. "Truck tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn. "Van pooling" means seven or more persons commuting on a daily basis to and from work by means of a vehicle with a seating arrangement designed to carry seven to 15 adult passengers. "Vehicle" means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may be transported upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or low-speed electric bicycles, low-speed electric scooters, and motorized bicycles. (cf: P.L.2025, c.155, s.1) 2. Section 8 of P.L.1977, c.267 (C.39:4-14.3f) is amended to read as follows: 8. Article 15 of chapter 4 of Title 39 of the Revised Statutes pertaining to accidents and reports shall be applicable to all accidents involving low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles. Any law enforcement officer investigating an accident in which a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle is involved shall report the accident to the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission and to the Department of Transportation . The report shall include information relating to the cause of the accident and extent of injury, if any, to the operator and such other information as may be required. (cf: P.L.1977, c.267, s.8) 3. Section 2 of P.L.2019, c.121 (C.39:4-14.16) is amended to read as follows: 2. a. A low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed electric scooter, as defined in R.S.39:1-1, may be operated on the streets, highways, roadways, and bicycle paths of this State, except as otherwise provided in this section, section 2 of P.L.1975, c.250 (C.39:4-14.3), section 9 of P.L.1983, c.105 (C.39:4-14.3i), and P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill), and may be parked on a sidewalk provided that the low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed electric scooter does not impede the normal movement of pedestrian or other traffic upon the sidewalk. b. On and after January 1, 2019, manufacturers and distributors of low-speed electric bicycles shall apply a label that is permanently affixed, in a prominent location, to each low-speed electric bicycle. The label shall contain the classification number, top assisted speed, and motor wattage of the low-speed electric bicycle and shall be printed in Arial font in at least 9-point type. c. A person shall not tamper with or modify a low-speed electric bicycle so as to change the motor-powered speed capability or engagement of a low-speed electric bicycle . d. A low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed electric scooter may be operated on bicycle paths, except that a local government entity or State agency may prohibit the operation of low-speed electric bicycles or low-speed electric scooters on bicycle paths under its jurisdiction. e. Unless permitted by a local government entity or State agency with jurisdiction, a low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed electric scooter shall not be operated on a trail designated for non-motorized traffic if such trail has a natural surface tread made by clearing and grading the soil and no surfacing materials have been added. f. (1) The operator of a low-speed electric scooter shall not be required to register the low-speed electric scooter or have a driver's license. (2) The operator of a low-speed electric bicycle shall be required to register the low-speed electric bicycle and have a driver's license to operate the low-speed electric bicycle pursuant to section 2 of P.L.1975, c.250 (C.39:4-14.3) . g. Except as otherwise provided by this section, section 2 of P.L.1975, c.250 (C.39:4-14.3), section 9 of P.L.1983, c.105 (C.39:4-14.3i), and P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill) , all statutes, including the provisions of chapter 4 of Title 39 of the Revised Statutes, rules, and regulations applicable to bicycles, as defined in section of P.L.1991, c.465 (C.39:4-10.1), shall apply to low-speed electric bicycles and low-speed electric scooters, except those provisions which by their very nature may have no application to low-speed electric bicycles or low-speed electric scooters. h. A low-speed electric scooter shall be considered a motor vehicle to the extent required by 23 U.S.C. s.154. i. No person shall operate a low-speed electric bicycle from dusk to dawn without a reflector installed on the low-speed electric bicycle. j. No person shall sell, or offer for sale, modification kits designed to turn a low-speed electric bicycle into a motorized bicycle or an electric motorized bicycle. (cf: P.L.2019, c.121, s.2) 4. (New section) a. As used in this section, "pedestrian" means any person who is not occupying, entering into, or alighting from a vehicle propelled by other than muscular power and designed primarily for use on highways, rails, and tracks. "Pedestrian" shall include any person operating a bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle, as those terms are defined in R.S.39:1-1. b. If a pedestrian is involved in an accident resulting in injury or death to the pedestrian, the injury or death shall be covered by the pedestrian's personal injury coverage in accordance with section 4 of P.L.1972, c.70 (C.39:6A-4). 5. Section 2 of P.L.1975, c.250 (C.39:4-14.3) is amended to read as follows: 2. a. Motorized bicycles shall not be operated upon interstate highways or upon public highways divided by a grass or concrete median or highways with posted speed limits in excess of 50 miles per hour or upon the railroad or right-of-way of an operating railroad within the State of New Jersey or upon any public land where expressly prohibited by the governing body, department or agency having jurisdiction thereof. The commissioner is authorized to adopt regulations either prohibiting the operation of motorized bicycles on any public road or highway with a speed limit in excess of 40 miles per hour, which , in the commissioner's discretion , are hazardous for the operation of motorized bicycles or permitting the operation of motorized bicycles on any public road or highway, upon which the operation of motorized bicycles is otherwise prohibited by the provisions of this section, which in the commissioner's discretion , are safe for the operation of motorized bicycles. In no case, however, shall the commissioner adopt a regulation permitting motorized bicycles to be operated on any highway with a posted speed in excess of 50 miles per hour. b. No municipality shall limit or otherwise restrict the operation of motorized bicycles on any public roads or highways under its jurisdiction in contravention of the provisions of this act or any regulations adopted by the director pursuant thereto. c. (1) No person who is under 15 years of age shall be permitted to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle . (2) No person who is 17 years of age or older shall be permitted to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle, unless the person shall be in possession of a valid basic driver's license or a valid motorized bicycle license or permit. (3) No person who is 15 years of age or older but under the age of 17 shall be permitted to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle, unless the person shall be in possession of a valid motorized bicycle license or permit issued pursuant to subsection d. of this section. (4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein , the operator of a low-speed electric bicycle shall not be required to be in possession of a valid basic driver's license or valid motorized bicycle license or permit if the operator is renting a low-speed electric bicycle from a company operating shared low-speed electric bicycles under a contract with a local government, provided that the company requires the operator to be 16 years of age or older. d. No person shall operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle unless the person shall be in possession of a valid driver's license of any class or a motorized bicycle license, which shall be issued by the commission to any person who is 15 years of age or older, upon proof of identity and date of birth, and after the person has passed a satisfactory examination as to the person's ability as an operator. Such examination shall include a test of the applicant's knowledge of the mechanisms of low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles as is necessary to ensure the safe operation and of the laws and ordinary usages of the road and a demonstration of the person's ability to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle. The demonstration of an applicant's ability to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle shall be administered at such municipalities that the commission shall designate, under the supervision of the commission, or an officer, employee, or authorized agent of the commission, in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the commission. The administrator may, in the administrator's discretion, issue a learner's permit to a person 15 years of age or older, upon proof of identity and date of birth, allowing such person, for the purpose of fitting the person to become licensed to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle , to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle during daylight hours without supervision for a period not to exceed 45 days. The permit shall be sufficient license for the person to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle. No permit shall be issued unless the person applying therefor shall pay the sum of $5 to the commission or an officer, employee or agent of the commission. e. The valid driver's license, the insurance identification card, and the registration certificate shall be in the possession of the operator at all times when operating a motorized bicycle or low-speed electric bicycle with motor engaged on the highways of this State. The operator of a low-speed electric bicycle and motorized bicycle shall exhibit the operator's driver's license when requested to do so by any police officer or magistrate, while in the performance of the duties of such office and shall write the operator's name in the presence of the officer, so that the officer may thereby determine the identity of the licensee and at the same time determine the correctness of the registration certificate, as it relates to the registration number and number plates of the low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle for which it was issued and the correctness of the evidence of a policy of insurance, as it relates to the coverage of the motorized bicycle for which it was issued. Any person violating this subsection shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $50 . If a person charged with a violation of this subsection can exhibit the person's valid driver's license, insurance identification card, and registration certificate, which were valid on the day he was charged, to the judge of the municipal court before whom he is summoned to answer to the charge, the judge may dismiss the charge; however, the judge may impose court costs. f. Unless otherwise determined by the commissioner, statutes, rules , and regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a motorized bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any public land. Every person operating a motorized bicycle upon a public road or highway shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by chapter 4 of Title 39 and N.J.S.2C:11-5 and all amendments and supplements thereto. (cf: P.L.2003, c.13, s.49) 6. Section 9 of P.L.1983, c.105 (C.39:4-14.3i) is amended to read as follows: In addition to the requirements of section 2 of P.L.1975, c. 250 (C. 39:4-14.3) , P.L.1977, c. 267 (C. 39:4-14.3a et seq.), and section 2 of P.L.2019, c.121 (C.39:4-14.16), no low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle , as those terms are defined by R.S. 39:1-1 , shall be operated on the public highways or on public lands of this State unless registered by the owner thereof as provided by this act and P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill) . The Chief Administrator of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission is authorized to grant a registration to the owner of a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle who is at least 15 years of age, provided that the application for registration has been properly made, the registration fee has been paid, and the motorized bicycle is of a type approved by the chief administrator . The form and contents of the registration certificate shall be prescribed by the chief administrator . The chief administrator shall maintain a record of all registration certificates issued and their contents. The registration shall expire and the registration certificate shall become void on the last day of the 11th calendar month following the calendar month in which the certificate was issued, except that the chief administrator may suspend or revoke a registration for any violation of this act or any of the rules promulgated hereunder. The chief administrator shall issue registration certificates for the following registration period, on and after the first day of the calendar month immediately preceding the commencement of the registration period, the registration certificates to be effective immediately. Application forms for all renewals of registrations for low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles shall be mailed by the chief administrator from the division to the last address of the owner of a motorized bicycle as it appears on the records of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission . (cf: P.L.1983, c.105, s.9) 7. (New section) a. The New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission shall make registration forms for low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles available at all commission agency locations and on the commission's Internet website. Additionally, all sellers of low-speed electric bicycles, motorized bicycles, and electric motorized bicycles shall make the applicable registration forms available to individuals purchasing such bicycles. The form and content of the registration forms for low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles shall conform to the requirements established by the rules and regulations adopted by the chief administrator pursuant to section 9 of P.L.1983, c.105 (C.39:4-14.3i). b. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection a. of this section, section 2 of P.L.1975, c.250 (C.39:4-14.3), and section 2 of P.L.2019, c.121 (C.39:4-14.16), a company operating shared low-speed electric bicycles under a contract with a local government may provide the serial number or other identifying numbers of each low-speed electric bicycle owned by the company to the commission on a quarterly basis in lieu of registering each shared low-speed electric bicycle. 8. (New section) a. The Chief Administrator of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission may accept as proof of ownership an affidavit from the owner of a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle if: (1) the low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle was not required to be registered in this State prior to the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill); (2) the low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle was purchased prior to the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill); (3) there is no bill of sale or other formal proof of ownership available for the low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle; and (4) the affidavit sets forth with reasonable specificity the acquisition of ownership of the low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle, together with any supporting documents, as proof of ownership of the low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle. b. It shall be a crime of the fourth degree for a person to knowingly submit a false bill of sale, false receipt of purchase, or any other false proof of ownership, or to knowingly submit any false affidavit or false supporting document regarding proof of ownership of a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle. 9. (New section) a. Following the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill), the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission and the Department of Transportation shall prepare and submit an annual report to the Legislature, pursuant to section 2 of P.L.1991, c.164 (C.52:14-19.1), concerning all information collected regarding the registration of motorized bicycles in this State since 2019. b. One year following the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill) and annually thereafter, the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission and the Department of Transportation shall prepare and submit an annual report to the Legislature, pursuant to section 2 of P.L.1991, c.164 (C.52:14-19.1), concerning the registration of low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles in the State. The report shall include, but not be limited to: (1) the number of low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles registered in the State; (2) the revenue generated by the fees collected and any civil penalties assessed pursuant to section 2 of P.L.1975, c.250 (C.39:4-14.3) ; and (3) the number of registered low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles disaggregated by the owner of record's county of residence. 10. (New section) Notwithstanding any law, rule, or regulation to the contrary, for one year following the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill), the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission shall waive all examination, registration, and licensing fees required pursuant to P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill) for the operation of low-speed electric bicycles and motorized bicycles. 11. (New section) A person shall have six months following the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill) to obtain: a. insurance for a motorized bicycle that was not required to have insurance prior to the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill); b. a registration certificate for a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle that was not required to be registered prior to the effective date of P.L , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill); and c. a license to operate a low-speed electric bicycle or motorized bicycle if the person was not required to obtain a license to operate these bicycles prior to the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill). 12. (New section) Notwithstanding any law, rule, or regulation to the contrary, for one year following the effective date of P.L. , c. (C. ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill), no person shall sell, or offer for sale, on the Internet any electric motorized bicycle as defined in R.S.39:1-1. 13. This act shall take effect immediately , except that section 4 shall take effect on the first day of the 12th month next following the date of enactment and shall apply to every standard automobile insurance policy issued or renewed on or after that date . The Chief Administrator of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission may take any anticipatory administrative action in advance as shall be necessary for the implementation of this act.